>> I'm Uri Geller,
and this is my Legacy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Dowsing is one of
my abilities which
I've done very successfully
throughout my life.
It started when I was a kid.
I could locate objects
my mother lost.
She would ask me
where did I place
my scissors or the needles,
which are very tiny.
And I would just go
around the apartment--
I remember, 6, 7-year-old,
I would find things.
I would locate,
later on in life,
scientifically hidden objects
at Stanford Research Institute.
And I think the probabilities
were in the billions.
I'm good at dowsing, and I don't
use dowsing rods, copper rods.
I very rarely use twigs.
I just use my hands.
I think that the twigs
and the dowsing rods
are really tools for your mind.
And one of the big
finds that I always
talk about was when General
Moshe Dayan asked me,
here in Israel, to drive
with him in his Jeep
and locate ancient
archaeological items that
were buried in sand and caves.
And we drove to
Ashkelon to the beach,
and I would just walk with
him with my hands stretched
forward.
And I would say, here, dig here.
And he would have
a shovel, and he
would dig out whatever I found.
It's basically honing my mind.
If I look for oil, then
I focus my mind onto oil.
I visualize oil.
If I'm looking for an
ancient lamp or a sculpture
or a piece of antiquity,
I just visualize
something very ancient.
And my mind allows me to
locate it very precisely.
I remember the time
when the president
of Mexico, Lopez Portillo, asked
me to look for oil for Pemex.
Pemex is the national
oil company of Mexico.
And I was in a helicopter
over the Gulf of Mexico.
I had a map on my
knees, and I would--
when I felt that I'm
flying over a place,
I would tell the pilot,
hover, come lower,
and then I would put
a big X on the map.
And they found oil there.
Oil came gushing out over there.
The president was so
impressed that he made me
a Mexican citizen.
I actually have a
Mexican passport.
So then I worked for
mining companies.
I found gold for a
Brazilian mining company,
for an Australian
mining company.
So the mechanism I use is
I visualize an imaginary TV
screen in my mind.
And all of you can do it.
You can try-- well, just try
what I'm telling you to do.
You visualize a TV screen.
The background color
of this TV screen
for me I paste a light pastel
green background in the TV.
Into this TV, I have to
bring in the location
and what I'm looking for.
And now we find
dowsing for oil, I
can see a black line appearing
in my imaginary TV screen
and stopping in one place and
kind of expanding outwards
like a glob of ink that drops
from a pen on a white piece
of paper.
Then I look down at the mat
and I let my hand guide me
to that imaginary screen
that I see in my mind
on to the marker I'm holding.
So I pinpoint the
exact location.
That's how I dowse.
It's an amazing technique,
and I urge you all
to actually try your powers.
Like, look, why don't
you all tomorrow,
when you're standing in
a line in a supermarket,
look at the back
of someone's head?
You know, before the till
there's a line of people.
Look at someone's head,
the back of their head.
Don't talk.
Don't even whisper.
But telepathically, tell
that person turn around,
turn around, turn around.
I will say that eight out of
10 people will turn around,
and you will say,
wow, it really works.
This beam, this energy, this
field of whatever is there.
Or something more beneficial--
you're looking for a car park
where you want to park your
car but there's no space,
but there's a guy sitting
in a car across from you,
and he's just sitting there.
So you just stare at
their face, at their head,
and you say, get out,
get out, get out.
Eight out of 10 people
will suddenly move away,
and you'll say,
thank you very much,
and you'll park your vehicle.
So there are little tests
that you can do yourselves--
ESP, extrasensory perception.
Tell your friends to turn away.
You draw a drawing.
It's transmitted to them.
You think of a number.
You transmit it.
So this way you enhance
your psychic abilities.
You train them.
You exercise them.
It's like lifting weights.
You wouldn't have
muscles here if you
didn't activate your muscles and
train your body or your heart.
You do aerobics to strengthen
your heart and your lungs.
You bring up your heart rate.
The same applies to your
mind, to your brain,
to your psychic
powers, to you're
dowsing abilities, to the field
of the paranormal in whole.
It's not just going
to happen to you.
Work on it.
Get working on this.
Believe in yourself.
And then, very soon--
it might take you a few
months, might take you a year,
might take you two years,
but suddenly you'll
find that you're good
at psychic abilities.
I'm so used to
doing this because I
got to take you back to
the age of six, seven,
when I went to my local school
here in Tel Aviv, [INAUDIBLE]..
I showed off with my talents
and my skills and my powers
to teachers, to my
friends, to pupils.
I bent spoons.
I read minds.
I moved clocks on the walls.
I fixed broken watches.
I could move compass needles.
And I was doing this
as a game, showing off.
I wanted them to be bewildered.
I loved the reaction
from people.
So that was an automatic way
of exercising my abilities.
I never really
focused on what I was
doing, what I was tuned
into, what frequency I was.
I just went with the flow.
I just go with the flow.
My entire career is--
I just-- I have no
managers, I have no agents,
I have never had PR people.
I didn't have image makers.
I just left the universal
energies coming to me
guide me, tell me what
to do, and I listen.
I intuitively listen to things.
I absorb the positive
energies of the universe,
and that built my career
and everything around me,
so I just let it happen.
Oil companies and mining
companies came to me.
They saw my TV shows.
They saw me locate hidden
objects on TV shows.
So mining company
executives say, wait, hang
on, if you can do that,
why don't we use him?
And the first request
came from no other
than the chairman of
Rio Tinto Inc., which is
a huge British mining company.
His name was Sir Val Duncan.
And I remember that he flew me
with Rio Tinto's private jet
to Mallorca.
And he would test me.
He would hide little film
cans, aluminum film cans.
He would pour oil in them
and hide them on the island
and say, now, Uri, go and find
it, or little nuggets of gold.
And I would go out.
This was fun for me, and
I would locate it for him.
And then he said, OK,
now, let me introduce you
to big mining companies.
This was Sir Val Duncan, the
head of Rio Tinto Inc., which
the company still exists.
And then I did
things for Anglovaal
in South Africa
for Clive Menell.
And then I did things
in Australia for Zanex.
So then I did things for a big
mining company and a big mogul
in Tokyo.
And it worked.
I always delivered the things.
I delivered the goods.
And you know what,
even if I'm not--
even if I don't find
oil, even if I say,
you know what, I
don't feel it's there,
I saved the company
millions of dollars
because otherwise they would
drill there and find nothing.
All these things that I've
been telling you today
are divided into segments
of the financial side,
the entertainment side,
and the ideological side.
Secret stuff-- CIA, Mossad, MI5,
MI6, intelligence services--
never get paid.
I did it out of adventure,
out of my belief
in my own ideological makeup.
Mining, gold, oil--
I had to become
independently wealthy.
I didn't want to
rely on other people.
I wanted to help others.
I wanted to be charitable.
I wanted to be in a position
where I could help people--
mainly sick children.
Hanna and I, my wife and I,
would fly terminally ill kids
to our house to
London to have fun.
I don't want to now
boast and show off
with my charitable side.
Forget that.
If you're interested
in my charity stuff,
get on my website.
Go to my charity page, because
money doesn't motivate me.
It motivated me
in the early '70s.
I was ruthless.
I was on an ego trip.
I was out for fame and fortune.
I wanted everything.
I was even sick.
I had bulimia because I
was so in a frenzy of fame
and fortune.
But then I got sick.
And it was John Lennon
that looked at me one day
and he said to me, Uri,
why aren't you spiritual?
Do you know what
is spirituality?
And I looked at him and
I said, I heard the word,
but what is it?
And he said, go to
Japan and find out.
I listened to him.
I packed up.
Me, Hanna-- my wife--
my mother, my children--
Daniel, Natalie--
my brother-in-law,
we got on a plane.
We flew to Japan.
I rented a car and
drove straight to Mt.
Fuji and we disappeared
into a forest.
We lived in a forest in a
tiny hut for an entire year.
That's where I found myself.
That's where I learned about
spirituality, about positivity.
meditation, inspiration,
motivation, the white light.
And from that moment,
money was nothing to me.
I don't have a wallet.
I don't touch money,
nothing like that.
So that's my story.
And that's what happened.
You know that in the
past, I used to charge
vast amounts of money.
I wouldn't get out of the house
for less than a million dollars
to find oil and gold.
And I said if I find,
if I don't find,
a million dollars,
that's my fee.
And they paid, of course.
And then when I found, then
I got a little percentage.
But that's decades ago.
And then one day, it was
over the Amazon jungles,
we were in a little
plane, and the pilot
didn't find the airport.
And we had to land on the
Trans-Amazonas highway,
the road there.
I thought to myself,
come on, Uri.
I mean, what are
you doing, for what?
So to have a more million--
less, more, for me it wasn't
important at that stage,
especially after Japan.
And I quit.
I stopped it.
That's it.
But yeah, I was very valuable
for these mining companies
because, you see, to find
oil and gold today, you've
got to spend tens of millions in
equipment, in airplanes pulling
magnetometers, manpower, drills.
You're talking about tens
and tens of millions.
I come and I say, look,
I don't need all that.
Here is my hand.
Give me a million dollars,
and I'll find the oil.
And I did that.
In the dowsing arena, I found
submarines, lost submarines.
I don't want to mention
names because some of them
had nuclear weapons on.
I found downed airplanes.
I found, you know, other
top secret objects.
But I know--
I know that--
I feel that I know where
the Ark of the Covenant is.
It's just in a very
sensitive place,
not easy to get
permission to excavate.
I know that there is
treasure on Ma Wan Island.
And I know that there are UFOs,
living UFOs, breathing UFOs,
breathing crafts, in certain
points around our planet.
And I'll say no more.
Did you know that if you go
to the core of our planet,
of Earth, the core of
our planet is made out
of a rotating crystal.
What is the core of our planet?
I believe and I know that
it's a rotating crystal.
I don't know if it's rock
crystal, what type of crystal.
But crystals, you know,
throughout century,
it has been said about crystals
of their healing powers.
I don't know if they
have healing powers.
But when I was in Mexico,
and I have to show
you this because
it's fascinating--
first of all, this is
one of my first books,
and I'll show it
to you close up.
This is me here and the wife
of the president of Mexico.
And this is one of the Mexican
pyramids, Mayan pyramids.
Now, this is a gun
that I got as a gift
from the president of
Mexico, Lopez Portillo.
But I also got
another gift from him.
And this is fantastic
because what it is,
it's a crystal skull.
Now, what he told me--
and I want to be precise, and
this is why I wrote it down.
This is what Lopez
Portillo told me.
This crystal skull is called,
in Spanish, [SPANISH],,
which I guess is the
skull of destiny.
And it was found in the
Temple of Inscription.
And if I'm not mistaken, in
the Temple of Inscription,
there was also a
plaque made from stone,
found of an ancient astronaut,
if you didn't know that.
It looks like a person
sitting with a lot
of mechanical kind
of futuristic tools
around him, like
he's guiding a UFO.
What else I wrote that
it was found in 18--
this was found in 1860 by
a Mexican archaeologist.
But there's also a rumor
that it has connections
to Chichen Itza in the Yucatan.
And another person told me
that it was found in 1950,
so I don't quite know the story
of this amazing, mystical,
and mysterious
rock crystal skull.
But I googled, and I found
out that there are 13 skulls
like this on this planet.
And this is the chief one.
This is the main one.
So this is going to
be here in my museum.
And I do feel--
I mean, a rock look.
Let's face, it rock crystal.
I mean, NASA-- did you know that
NASA uses tiny crystals that
are attached to an
aluminum pad to balance
the weight of astronauts?
Did you know that
quartz watches that keep
the most precise
time in the world
have a little crystal chip?
I believe that
computers have crystals.
So crystals play a
major part in our lives.
And for the ancient Mayans
and the prehistoric people
that started mankind to
receive this type of knowledge,
it must've come from the stars.
Look at the elongated
brain of this creature.
Can you imagine if we today
say that our minds are
the most powerful
computers in the universe?
Can you imagine the
mind of this creature
that still, I believe, visits
us and travels to planet Earth
and beyond?
And I think we are
being tested by them.
I think they're
giving us knowledge.
And I think
governments want to put
their hand on that knowledge.
And that's why you've got
the stories of Area 51
and all of these stories of
pieces of metal from crafts.
That's this story, and this
is my skull close to my heart.
I'm so universally my way
of thinking in the pattern
of my mind that I really--
I don't want to
say, I don't care,
but I just want to
go on and continue
in different dimensions.
Legacy-wise, you know, I'm so
well-known around the world
for spoon bending that recently
I told my wife that, why
don't you create a huge spoon
on my tombstone so when people
pass they say, ah,
what's a bent spoon
doing on Uri Geller's grave?
And that will bring a
smile to their faces.
That's my legacy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]